---
title: "GameStoryWeek3"
date: 2019-06-19T14:40:12+08:00
toc: false
images:
tags:
- Story
- Coursera
- Game Design Course




---



# Review

## About Idea Sheets
In the previous lectures, we discussed creating Idea Sheets to generate ideas and thoughts on various aspects of your game story. These lists are for you to freestyle brainstorm thoughts onto paper to commit them to words, without judgement or hesitation. The concept is to allow yourself free-form creativity and just throw these ideas, however useful they may end up being, down on paper. As you may recall, the Idea Sheets I recommend are for the following:

1. Game Goals Idea Sheet - The hero’s quest in the game

2. Protagonist Idea Sheet - How the hero feels about his goals, developing wider character goals

3. Antagonist Idea Sheet - Goals and motivations for the antagonist

4. Settings and Levels Idea Sheet - Settings and environments where the story takes place.

Once you have these ideas scribbled out, you can begin to formulate connections between them and sculpt them into clearer descriptions and cohesive designs.

In the following examples, I've presented two of the Idea Sheets I generated by hand while I was thinking The Shooter. The first is for the antagonist, Dead-Eye Jane. The second is for the locations and settings of the game and how they could be game levels. I have typed them up without editing them for legibility, but I do suggest that you write them out by hand when creating them.

As you read these, **keep in mind only a handful of these ideas end up being used** in the game and character descriptions. And that is what this is all about! Most of them are thrown away in the end, but the ones that stick can be essential to the characters and the world of the game. I have highlighted the ideas on these sheets that I want to use moving forward in the game creation.

## Review: Story Synopses
In Week 2, we saw an example of a StarCraft II: Wings of Liberty story synopsis. For a refresher, click here.


Remember that we want to hit all 8 points in a synopsis, though they do not need to be in order.

1. Where are we; where/when does the story take place?

2. Who are we following along in the story (the protagonist) and why them?

3. Who or what force is opposed to the hero (the antagonist) and why are they in opposition?

4. What do these characters want to accomplish; what is at stake for them?

5. What is the ensuing conflict and why does it exist?

6. How does the action rise; how do things get more tense?

7. What is the final crisis and how does it play out?

8. How do things resolve and wrap up?

## Review: Character Briefs
As we learned in Week 2, the following six points can guide you through the process of writing detailed Character Briefs:

1. Who is he/she? Are they a primary or secondary character and how do they relate to the game story?

2. What do they look like? What important items might they wear or carry with them?

3. What is their personality like and how does that personality help fulfill their role in the game story?

4. How do they relate to other characters in the game?

5. What are their strengths and weaknesses, and how can that affect the game story?

6. What are the motivating character goals for this character?


Using what we have learned so far, let's examine the following Character Briefs for The Shooter to see if they hit all of the major points.
# Instruction
We’re still in practice mode, but now it’s your turn. Here we invite you to reimagine The Shooter as a different story and push it towards a different game altogether.

## Review criteria
This is a required, graded assignment, as well as very good practice! Three of your peers will assign you a grade on your submission based on the following criteria:

- Did you submit all the components required for this assignment? (4pts)
- Does the student’s Synopsis hit all 8 points clearly? Does the Synopsis make sense and give you a good idea of what is happening? (2pts)
- Does the Character Brief for the protagonist hit all 6 points? Can your peers connect with this character? (2pts)
- Does the Character Brief for the antagonist hit all 6 points? Do you find this character compelling as the student described them? (2pts)
- Does the Setting Description adequately explain where the primary action takes place, and how the character will move through those locations? (2pts)

Spelling, grammar and specific word counts will not factor into the grade, but do consider how effectively you are communicating your story to your peers.

## Instructions
In this assignment you are asked to try reimagining The Shooter differently than how I’ve presented it in this class. 

If you didn’t already try it, use the Idea Sheets method to pull together some rough ideas for the quest, protagonist goals, antagonist goals and settings stemming from this undeveloped spine: **TheShooter is about a man who is out to show everyone that he’s the best shot in the world.**
 Next, assemble some of your best ideas to write:

1. OPTIONAL: the Spine (logline) of your version of The Shooter.
2. The Story Synopsis of your version of The Shooter (200-400 words). Try to hit all 8 points of a good synopsis.
3. A Character Brief for the protagonist AND the antagonist (100-300 words each). Try to hit all 6 points of what makes a good character description in each brief.
4. Setting Descriptions (100-300 words) that outlines the major locations/levels (2-3 maximum) and how a character would travel from place to place. 

Finally, to give your peers some context, include a short statement about your approach to The Shooter. How is it different, and why?

Write all five components (Synopsis, two Character Briefs, Setting Descriptions, and statement) directly in each submission window. The spine is optional in this assignment.

Give your project a title (a new game title, if you wish), and submit!

## Tips for Completion
Using The Shooter is a limitation, but there is still plenty you can do within those limitations! Some suggestions for changing The Shooter storyline include:

- New wider character goals and history for Jake and/or Dead-Eye Jane;
- Different settings, or a different type of competition circuit, not necessarily based on shooting;
- A different antagonist character for Jake than Dead-Eye Jane; or 
- Swap Jake and Dead-Eye Jane’s roles as protagonist and antagonist. 
  

Also, though it’s clearer to present your assignment starting with the spine, in drafting your assignment **it’s best to start writing the Character Briefs and Setting Descriptions first** (based on the ideas from your Idea Sheets), then craft your Synopsis and Spine.*Just like play testing, peer feedback can greatly improve anyone’s writing. Likewise, looking at and providing feedback on your peers’ writing will help tremendously in your own work as a game designer. When you’re reviewing someone’s project, please grade generously and give thoughtful and constructive criticism. The goal here is to help your peer move forward and succeed in their work.  
